Call of Duty: Black Ops 6 and Warzone Season 1 Roadmap Revealed: Details on Maps, Weapons, and More

Maps like Area 99 and modes like Ranked Play kick off Black Ops 6's first season of content.

With Call of Duty: Black Ops 6 Season 1 now only one week away, Treyarch has taken the time to reveal a roadmap featuring the weapons, maps, and modes players can look forward to.

The team behind this year’s first-person shooter hit detailed their plans in a lengthy post on the Call of Duty website. There are a few highlights that we know about – the Warzone revamp and a fresh batch of new maps for Multiplayer and Zombies are the real draws – but there are plenty of other surprises hidden in today’s update that should get players excited. This includes a handful of new Operators, such as one based on the franchise’s long-running The Replacer character, and information about the launch of Ranked Play later this month.

Treyarch says Black Ops 6 Ranked is an experience it has been working toward since 2021’s Call of Duty: Vanguard. Expect to see it launch November 21 with what the team is calling “several streamlined features, innovations, and updates,” including changes to the ranking system to focus more on skill, a forfeit feature, and map/mode voting.

Warzone is another attractive feature coming with Season 1 and includes the previously revealed Area 99 Resurgence map. Every subsection of the map essentially works as its own smaller map to fight through, with the entire setting themed after an abandoned government testing site from the ‘50s that bears a striking resemblance to the fan-favorite Multiplayer map, Nuketown. Black Ops 6 Warzone Season 1 will also see the return of the Urzikstan and Rebirth Island maps as well as the Plunder game mode.

The standard Multiplayer game mode, meanwhile, is getting three new maps at launch: Hideout, Heirloom, and Extraction. Modes like Ransack and Prop Hunt are also coming with Season 1, as are new weapons like the Krig C assault rifle, Sirin 9mm special weapon, AMR Mod 4 sniper, and even a power drill melee tool. Zombies fans can also look forward to three new GobbleGums and a new map called Citadelle des Morts that looks like a dusty medieval castle.
